We already talked about what serverless
means, it's kind of a confusing topic
because the name doesn't mean
what it sounds like it means and
that mental model is a little strange.
I do think it will become much more
clear as we start to dig into these.
So if you're if you're feeling
like you got it, stick with me,
when we start writing code,
it's gonna click I promise.
So then what we're gonna do
throughout this workshop and
this is gonna be, I would say like
a reasonably fast workshop, I think.
Because we're gonna be able to cover so
much, and
we get to skip all of this boilerplate.
But we're gonna figure out how we can load
some data through serverless functions.
We're gonna start with
some hard coded data, and
we're going to move on to
more dynamic data as we go.
We're going to learn how to protect
secret credentials, one of the hardest
things about writing single page apps is
that if I need to send a protected key,
an API token or an access key or
something that can't be shared.
I can't do that in a front end
application because somebody could just
scrape the code and find it and
then go pretend they're me,
and wreak havoc, that's a problem.
So we're gonna show you how we can
fix that using serverless functions.
We're gonna learn how to send
data in to serverless functions,
we're going to figure out
how we can save data.
So we're going to stand
up a database today and
use serverless functions to read and
write.
And then we're going to stand
up an identity service, and
we're going to show how to limit
access to who can perform what
role based on their current user token.
And we'll do that again with serverless
functions, so there's a lot of stuff we
can do, there's a whole lot of power for
what we're capable of.
And we're gonna be able to move through
all of this without having to learn
a whole lot about how servers work.
And I think that's really exciting and
that's why I think this is
such a powerful technology.
We get to use the JavaScript
that we already know,
to do extremely powerful things with
just a few additional things stacked
on top of our existing knowledge and
I really, really like that.
So, the first thing that we're gonna do,
we're gonna need two things
before we can get started.
We're going to be developing locally using
the Netlify CLI, netlify functions give
us the least amount of setup that I've
seen for running serverless functions.
We'll need two lines of config, and
so we're gonna start with that,
so make sure that you
install the Netlify CLI.
If you have the Netlify CLI, make sure
that you just run this again at latest so
you've got the latest version.
And then we're also going
to clone this starter repo,
we're going to use the start branch.
So go ahead and take a minute,
get the CLI installed and
the the repo running at
the the start branch.
So what we're looking at in here is,
you're gonna see a data folder and
a source folder.
So we're not gonna talk about really
any of the front end technology today,
we're gonna write a little bit of
front end JavaScript to interact with
the serverless functions.
But I've pre-written the baseline,
all the styles are there,
the site's outer wrapper is already there.
So let's just verify that this is working,
we can run netlify,
actually, I like the shortcut, ntl dev.
And that is gonna start up
a local server for us, and
it's gonna run at localhost 8888.
So we can copy that over to a browser, and
we'll see here that right now
it just shows us a headline.
I'm gonna zoom in just a little bit,
so this is what you should be seeing
that we aren't loading any data yet.
We haven't actually pulled anything in,
we're only looking at the hard coded data.
And if we pull this over to the side,
what we can see in our code here
is that we've got this index.html,
and there's the styles.
I'm gonna collapse those,
all we have is the h1, so
this demo is it's running Eleventy.
Eleventy is very cool if you just want
to write HTML, CSS and JavaScript,
if you don't want to use a framework or
anything like that.
We are not talking about that today,
if you're interested,
I do have some articles, there's a lot
of really great resources on it.
But in general, the reason I used it
is because we can just write some
HTML in here and not have to worry
about using JSX or view templates.
Or something like spelt where
there's some specific syntax,
we're gonna be able to
just write plain HTML.
So all the HTML and JavaScript we're
using today is browser standard.
It should work in all modern browsers,
there's no build step to
transpile this to be usable.
It's all gonna be something that you
can copy paste into your browser and
it will work, make sure that you've
installed everything as well.
So the only dependencies that we have,
we have node-fetch,
which I'll explain why we're using
that in a bit, we have eleventy.
So yeah, make sure that we run npm install
to get all of those set up and running.
And that will give us our running site
once that's done and run netlify dev.
And the reason that we're using netlify
dev instead of using the standard
like eleventy command, which we could
just run npm dev to run eleventy.
Is that because we're working
with serverless functions,
serverless functions don't
run as part of the front end.
Serverless functions are actually
an entirely separate app, and there,
depending on what service you're using,
local testing can be a pain.
The reason that we're using netlify dev
and the reason that we're using netlify
functions, is that there is
a really nice local story.
Which is what we just did netlify dev,
that's all we have to do to
locally test our functions.